docs/tutorials-use-cases/notebooks.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Explore the capabilities of Phoenix with notebook tutorials for concrete
  use-cases
---

# Notebooks

## Notebooks

| Title                                                             | Topics                                                                                             | Links                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Generative LLM                                                    | <ul><li>generative AI</li><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li></ul>                                           | Coming soon!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| LLM-Powered Exploratory Data Analysis                             | <ul><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li><li>exploratory data analysis</li><li>unsupervised learning</li></ul> | Coming soon!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Root-Cause Analysis for a Drifting Sentiment Classification Model | <ul><li>NLP</li><li>sentiment classification</li><li>root-cause analysis</li></ul>                 | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) |
| Active Learning for a Drifting Image Classification Model         | <ul><li>image classification</li><li>data export</li><li>fine-tuning</li></ul>                     | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)         |
| Fraud Detection                                                   | <ul><li>tabular data</li><li>anomaly detection</li></ul>                                           | Coming soon!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Running Phoenix Example Datasets                                  | <ul><li>built-in datasets</li></ul>                                                                | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Commit message:

docs: add link to llm summarization tutorial

docs/tutorials-use-cases/notebooks.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Explore the capabilities of Phoenix with notebook tutorials for concrete
  use-cases
---

# Notebooks

## Notebooks

| Title                                                             | Topics                                                                                             | Links                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Troubleshooting an LLM Summarization Task                                                   | <ul><li>generative AI</li><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li></ul>                                           | ![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| LLM-Powered Exploratory Data Analysis                             | <ul><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li><li>exploratory data analysis</li><li>unsupervised learning</li></ul> | Coming soon!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Root-Cause Analysis for a Drifting Sentiment Classification Model | <ul><li>NLP</li><li>sentiment classification</li><li>root-cause analysis</li></ul>                 | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) |
| Active Learning for a Drifting Image Classification Model         | <ul><li>image classification</li><li>data export</li><li>fine-tuning</li></ul>                     | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)         |
| Fraud Detection                                                   | <ul><li>tabular data</li><li>anomaly detection</li></ul>                                           | Coming soon!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Running Phoenix Example Datasets                                  | <ul><li>built-in datasets</li></ul>                                                                | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
