docs/tutorials/notebooks.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Explore the capabilities of Phoenix with notebook tutorials for concrete
  use-cases
---

# Notebooks

## Notebooks

| Title                                                                            | Topics                                                                             | Links                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Evaluating and Improving Search and Retrieval Applications (LlamaIndex)          | <ul><li>search and retrieval</li></ul>                                             | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llama\_index\_search\_and\_retrieval\_tutorial.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Evaluating and Improving Search and Retrieval Applications (LangChain, Pinecone) | <ul><li>search and retrieval</li></ul>                                             | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/langchain\_pinecone\_search\_and\_retrieval\_tutorial.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Active Learning for a Drifting Image Classification Model                        | <ul><li>image classification</li><li>data export</li><li>fine-tuning</li></ul>     | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)                               |
| Running Phoenix Example Datasets                                                 | <ul><li>built-in datasets</li></ul>                                                | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb)                                                           |
| Collect Chats with GPT                                                           | <ul><li>generative LLMs</li></ul>                                                  | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_generative\_gpt\_4.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_generative\_gpt\_4.ipynb)                                               |
| Root-Cause Analysis for a Drifting Sentiment Classification Model                | <ul><li>NLP</li><li>sentiment classification</li><li>root-cause analysis</li></ul> | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)                       |
| Find Clusters, Export, and Explore with GPT                                      | <ul><li>generative LLMs</li></ul>                                                  | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/find\_cluster\_export\_and\_explore\_with\_gpt.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/find\_cluster\_export\_and\_explore\_with\_gpt.ipynb) |
| Troubleshooting an LLM Summarization Task                                        | <ul><li>generative AI</li><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li></ul>                           | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb)                                     |
| Detecting Fraud with Tabular Embeddings                                          | <ul><li>tabular data</li><li>anomaly detection</li><li>data export</li></ul>       | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/credit\_card\_fraud\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/credit\_card\_fraud\_tutorial.ipynb)                                   |

Commit message:

docs: add tracing tutorial links

docs/tutorials/notebooks.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Explore the capabilities of Phoenix with notebook tutorials for concrete
  use-cases
---

# Notebooks

## Notebooks

| Title                                                                            | Topics                                                                             | Links                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tracing LLM Applications (LlamaIndex)                                            | <ul><li>tracing</li><li>LLM apps</li></ul>                                         | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/tracing/llama\_index\_tracing\_tutorial\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/tracing/llama\_index\_tracing\_tutorial.ipynb)     |
| Tracing LLM Applications (LangChain)                                             | <ul><li>tracing</li><li>LLM apps</li></ul>                                         | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/tracing/langchain\_tracing\_tutorial\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/tracing/langchain\_tracing\_tutorial.ipynb)           |
| Evaluating and Improving Search and Retrieval Applications (LlamaIndex)          | <ul><li>search and retrieval</li></ul>                                             | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llama\_index\_search\_and\_retrieval\_tutorial.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Evaluating and Improving Search and Retrieval Applications (LangChain, Pinecone) | <ul><li>search and retrieval</li></ul>                                             | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/langchain\_pinecone\_search\_and\_retrieval\_tutorial.ipynb)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Active Learning for a Drifting Image Classification Model                        | <ul><li>image classification</li><li>data export</li><li>fine-tuning</li></ul>     | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/image\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)                               |
| Running Phoenix Example Datasets                                                 | <ul><li>built-in datasets</li></ul>                                                | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/example\_datasets.ipynb)                                                           |
| Collect Chats with GPT                                                           | <ul><li>generative LLMs</li></ul>                                                  | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_generative\_gpt\_4.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_generative\_gpt\_4.ipynb)                                               |
| Root-Cause Analysis for a Drifting Sentiment Classification Model                | <ul><li>NLP</li><li>sentiment classification</li><li>root-cause analysis</li></ul> | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/sentiment\_classification\_tutorial.ipynb)                       |
| Find Clusters, Export, and Explore with GPT                                      | <ul><li>generative LLMs</li></ul>                                                  | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/find\_cluster\_export\_and\_explore\_with\_gpt.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/find\_cluster\_export\_and\_explore\_with\_gpt.ipynb) |
| Troubleshooting an LLM Summarization Task                                        | <ul><li>generative AI</li><li>LLMs</li><li>NLP</li></ul>                           | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/llm\_summarization\_tutorial.ipynb)                                     |
| Detecting Fraud with Tabular Embeddings                                          | <ul><li>tabular data</li><li>anomaly detection</li><li>data export</li></ul>       | [![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/credit\_card\_fraud\_tutorial.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/credit\_card\_fraud\_tutorial.ipynb)                                   |
