---
description: Available in Phoenix 5.0+
---

# 09.26.2024: Authentication & RBAC 🔐

{% embed url="https://storage.googleapis.com/arize-phoenix-assets/assets/images/Screenshot%202025-03-27%20at%204.19.39%E2%80%AFPM.png" %}

We've added Authentication and Rules-based Access Controls to Phoenix. This was a long-requested feature set, and we're excited for the new uses of Phoenix this will unlock!

The auth feature set includes:

* **Secure Access**: All of Phoenix’s UI & APIs (REST, GraphQL, gRPC) now require access tokens or API keys. Keep your data safe!
* **RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)**: Admins can manage users; members can update their profiles—simple & secure.
* **API Keys**: Now available for seamless, secure data ingestion & querying.
* **OAuth2 Support**: Easily integrate with Google, AWS Cognito, or Auth0. ✉ Password Resets via SMTP to make security a breeze.

For all the details on authentication, view our [docs](https://arize.com/docs/phoenix/deployment/authentication).

### Bug Fixes and Improvements 🐛

* Numerous stability improvements to our hosted Phoenix instances accessed on app.phoenix.arize.com
* Added a new command to easily launch a Phoenix client from the cli: `phoenix serve`
* Implemented simple email sender to simplify dependencies
* Improved error handling for imported spans
* Replaced hdbscan with fast-hdbscan Added PHOENIX\_CSRF\_TRUSTED\_ORIGINS environment variable to set trusted origins
* Added support for Mistral 1.0
* Fixed an issue that caused px.Client().get\_spans\_dataframe() requests to time out
