# Maintenance README for Phoenix Sphinx API Documentation

This API reference provides comprehensive details for Phoenix's API. The documentation covers only public, user-facing API endpoints offered in Phoenix. The main GitBook-based documentation for Phoenix is located in phoenix/docs.

Maintaining the API reference consists of two parts:

1. Building the documentation with Sphinx
2. Hosting and CI with readthedocs

## Configuration

```
api_reference
 ┣ source
 ┃ ┃ ┣ custom.css
 ┃ ┃ ┣ logo.png
 ┃ ┃ ┗ switcher.json
 ┃ ┣ api
 ┃ ┃ ┣ client.rst
 ┃ ┃ ┣ evals.rst
 ┃ ┃ ┣ experiments.rst
 ┃ ┃ ┣ inferences_schema.rst
 ┃ ┃ ┗ session.rst
 ┃ ┃ ┗ ...
 ┃ ┣ conf.py
 ┃ ┗ index.md
 ┣ Makefile
 ┣ README.md
 ┣ make.bat
 ┗ requirements.txt
```

- conf.py: All sphinx-related configuration is done here and is necessary to run Sphinx.
- index.md: Main entrypoint for the API reference. This file must be in the `source` directory. For documentation to show up on the API reference, there must be a path (does not have to be direct) defined in index.md to the target documentation file.
- requirements.txt: This file is necessary for management of dependencies on the readthedocs platform and its build process.
- make files: Not required but useful in generating static HTML pages locally.

`requirements.txt` contains all Sphinx-related dependencies. Although this file is mainly for the readthedocs build process, to run and build locally, you must download all dependencies found in `requirements.txt` from root (local Phoenix packages such as packages/phoenix-evals should be installed as a dev dependency using `-e`).

## Building the Documentation

### API-Doc

If the API reStructuredText (rst) or Markdown (md) files are already present in the `api` directory, skip this step and modify those files directly.

If you are starting from scratch or want to re-generate those pages, you must first generate the documentation using Markdown or reStructuredText files that contain Sphinx autodoc directives. This is done automatically using sphinx-apidoc (which outputs rst files). Files generated by this command will be placed in `source/output`. However, content that was manual edits such as examples, page organization, module autodoc settings, etc. will be lost if these files are replaced in the `source/api` directory. The typical command used for this API reference is:

```
sphinx-apidoc -o ./source/output ../path/to/module --separate -M
```

where `path/to/module` refers to the module. The command above would be called in `/api_reference` but the paths can be configured so that the command can be called wherever.

- Command options: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autodoc.html

This automatically generates reStructuredText with autodoc-related directives for all modules of the specified package. These files direct Sphinx when building on how to generate our documentation from the docstrings in our codebase. Once run, the documentation files will be generated in `api_reference/source/output`. Then, move all relevant files from `source/output` to `source/api`.

### Autodoc

The files generated using apidoc can be edited to specify certain documentation generation behavior using directive options. Autodoc directives instruct the autodoc extension to extract docstrings from files and automatically generate API documentation. Autodoc directives (for rst) typically look something like:

```
.. automodule:: module_name
   :members:
   :no-undoc-members:
   :exclude-members:
   ...

.. autoclass:: module_name::class_name
   :members:
   ...

.. automethod:: module_name.class_name::function_name
```

where `.. automodule:: module_name` is an autodoc directive and `:members` is a directive option.

Documentation (and a list of all directive options) for Sphinx's autodoc can be found here:

- https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autodoc.html

### Index.md

Once the newly generated files are in `source/api`, for the new documentation to show up, add a path under `{toctree}` in `index.md` to the module. This would look something like (Sphinx assumes the file extension):

```
api/module
```

This path does not have to be direct - take for instance `evals.rst`. Index refers to `evals.rst`, which in turn references several evals submodules.

### conf.py

All configurations for Sphinx are placed in this file. This file deals with configs such as page theme, navbar and sidebar settings, extensions and extension settings, custom CSS file settings, etc.

Custom CSS and JavaScript files should be placed in `_static`.

### HTML Static Sites

Once the rst files are created using autodoc and index.md has a way to reach the files in its toctree, the documentation can be rendered into static HTML pages. Make the static HTML sites using:

```
make clean
make html
```

or

```
make clean html
```

and the HTML sites should be built in the `api_reference/build` directory.

NOTE: All custom static files should be placed in `source/_static`.

## PyData Theme

The PyData theme that we use for our API reference has its own theme-related configurations that change the behavior of Sphinx. These configuration options can be found here: https://pydata-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/

## Readthedocs

### .readthedocs.yaml

Configurations for readthedocs can be found in the root directory in the file `/.readthedocs.yaml`. It must have the correct path to both Sphinx's `conf.py` file and to the `requirements.txt` in the API reference's directory. Once there are valid rst or md files for Phoenix's modules, a valid `.readthedocs.yaml`, and valid `conf.py`, readthedocs will automatically build our documentation. When a new commit is pushed to the Phoenix repository, readthedocs receives a webhook and a new build of the references is rendered to match the new commit. Whenever a new tag is updated on the repo, that tag will also be automatically built and updated to be public as per settings set on `Automation Rules` on readthedocs.

Version control for the reference's version dropdown must be manually updated in `switcher.json`.

### api_reference/requirements.txt

This file is used by readthedocs to download the correct dependencies to build and render the API docs. The dependencies also include local Phoenix packages. This file is read at the root level and any references to local dependencies should reflect this.
