docs/api/evals.md, before:

---
description: >-
    Evals are LLM-powered functions that you can use to evaluate the output of
    your LLM or generative application
---

# Evals

{% hint style="warning" %}
Evals are still under `experimental` and must be installed via `pip install arize-phoenix[experimental]`
{% endhint %}

## phoenix.experimental.evals.PromptTemplate

```python
class PromptTemplate(
    text: str
    delimiters: List[str]
)
```

Class used to store and format prompt templates.

### Parameters

-   **text** (str): The raw prompt text used as a template.
-   **delimiters** (List\[str]): List of characters used to locate the variables within the prompt template `text`. Defaults to `["{", "}"]`.

### Attributes

-   **text** (str): The raw prompt text used as a template.
-   **variables** (List\[str]): The names of the variables that, once their values are substituted into the template, create the prompt text. These variable names are automatically detected from the template `text` using the `delimiters` passed when initializing the class (see Usage section below).

### Usage

Define a `PromptTemplate` by passing a `text` string and the `delimiters` to use to locate the `variables`. The default delimiters are `{` and `}`.

```python
from phoenix.experimental.evals import PromptTemplate

template_text = "My name is {name}. I am {age} years old and I am from {location}."
prompt_template = PromptTemplate(text=template_text)
```

If the prompt template variables have been correctly located, you can access them as follows:

```python
print(prompt_template.variables)
# Output: ['name', 'age', 'location']
```

The `PromptTemplate` class can also understand any combination of delimiters. Following the example above, but getting creative with our delimiters:

```python
template_text = "My name is :/name-!). I am :/age-!) years old and I am from :/location-!)."
prompt_template = PromptTemplate(text=template_text, delimiters=[":/", "-!)"])
print(prompt_template.variables)
# Output: ['name', 'age', 'location']
```

Once you have a `PromptTemplate` class instantiated, you can make use of its `format` method to construct the prompt text resulting from substituting values into the `variables`. To do so, a dictionary mapping the variable names to the values is passed:

```python
value_dict = {
    "name": "Peter",
    "age": 20,
    "location": "Queens"
}
print(prompt_template.format(value_dict))
# Output: My name is Peter. I am 20 years old and I am from Queens
```

Note that once you initialize the `PromptTemplate` class, you don't need to worry about delimiters anymore, it will be handled for you.

## phoenix.experimental.evals.llm_classify

```python
def llm_classify(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    model: BaseEvalModel,
    template: Union[PromptTemplate, str],
    rails: List[str],
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    verbose: bool = False,
    use_function_calling_if_available: bool = True,
    provide_explanation: bool = False,
) -> pd.DataFrame
```

Classifies each input row of the `dataframe` using an LLM. Returns a `pandas.DataFrame` where the first column is named `label` and contains the classification labels. An optional column named `explanation` is added when `provide_explanation=True`.

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A pandas dataframe in which each row represents a record to be classified. All template variable names must appear as column names in the dataframe (extra columns unrelated to the template are permitted).
-   **template (PromptTemplate or str):** The prompt template as either an instance of PromptTemplate or a string. If the latter, the variable names should be surrounded by curly braces so that a call to `.format` can be made to substitute variable values.
-   **model (BaseEvalModel):** An LLM model class instance
-   **rails (List\[str]):** A list of strings representing the possible output classes of the model's predictions.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str]):** An optional system message for modals that support it
-   **verbose (bool, optional):** If `True`, prints detailed info to stdout such as model invocation parameters and details about retries and snapping to rails. Default `False`.
-   **use_function_calling_if_available (bool, default=True):** If `True`, use function calling (if available) as a means to constrain the LLM outputs. With function calling, the LLM is instructed to provide its response as a structured JSON object, which is easier to parse.
-   **provide_explanation (bool, default=False):** If `True`, provides an explanation for each classification label. A column named `explanation` is added to the output dataframe. Currently, this is only available for models with function calling.

### Returns

-   **pandas.DataFrame:** A dataframe where the `label` column (at column position 0) contains the classification labels. If `provide_explanation=True`, then an additional column named `explanation` is added to contain the explanation for each label. The dataframe has the same length and index as the input dataframe. The classification label values are from the entries in the rails argument or "NOT_PARSABLE" if the model's output could not be parsed.

## phoenix.experimental.run_relevance_eval

```python
def run_relevance_eval(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    model: BaseEvalModel,
    template: Union[PromptTemplate, str] = RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE_STR,
    rails: List[str] = list(RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_RAILS_MAP.values()),
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    query_column_name: str = "query",
    document_column_name: str = "reference",
) -> List[List[str]]:
```

Given a pandas dataframe containing queries and retrieved documents, classifies the relevance of each retrieved document to the corresponding query using an LLM.

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pd.DataFrame):** A pandas dataframe containing queries and retrieved documents. If both query_column_name and reference_column_name are present in the input dataframe, those columns are used as inputs and should appear in the following format:
    -   The entries of the query column must be strings.
    -   The entries of the documents column must be lists of strings. Each list may contain an arbitrary number of document texts retrieved for the corresponding query.
    -   If the input dataframe is lacking either query_column_name or reference_column_name but has query and retrieved document columns in OpenInference trace format named "attributes.input.value" and "attributes.retrieval.documents", respectively, then those columns are used as inputs and should appear in the following format:
        -   The entries of the query column must be strings.
        -   The entries of the document column must be lists of OpenInference document objects, each object being a dictionary that stores the document text under the key "document.content".
-   **model (BaseEvalModel):** The model used for evaluation.
-   **template (Union\[PromptTemplate, str], optional):** The template used for evaluation.
-   **rails (List\[str], optional):** A list of strings representing the possible output classes of the model's predictions.
-   **query_column_name (str, optional):** The name of the query column in the dataframe, which should also be a template variable.
-   **reference_column_name (str, optional):** The name of the document column in the dataframe, which should also be a template variable.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str], optional):** An optional system message.

### Returns

-   **evaluations (List\[List\[str]]):** A list of relevant and not relevant classifications. The "shape" of the list should mirror the "shape" of the retrieved documents column, in the sense that it has the same length as the input dataframe and each sub-list has the same length as the corresponding list in the retrieved documents column. The values in the sub-lists are either entries from the rails argument or "NOT_PARSABLE" in the case where the LLM output could not be parsed.

## phoenix.experimental.evals.llm_generate

```python
def llm_generate(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    template: Union[PromptTemplate, str],
    model: Optional[BaseEvalModel] = None,
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    output_parser: Optional[Callable[[str], Dict[str, Any]]] = None,
) -> List[str]
```

Generates a text using a template using an LLM. This function is useful if you want to generate synthetic data, such as irrelevant responses

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A pandas dataframe in which each row represents a record to be used as in input to the template. All template variable names must appear as column names in the dataframe (extra columns unrelated to the template are permitted).
-   **template (Union\[PromptTemplate, str])**: The prompt template as either an instance of PromptTemplate or a string. If the latter, the variable names should be surrounded by curly braces so that a call to `format` can be made to substitute variable values.
-   **model (BaseEvalModel)**: An LLM model class.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str], optional):** An optional system message.
-   **output_parser (Callable[[str], Dict[str, Any]], optional)** An optional function that takes each generated response and parses it to a dictionary. The keys of the dictionary should correspond to the column names of the output dataframe. If None, the output dataframe will have a single column named "output".

### Returns

-   **generations_dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A dataframe where each row represents the generated output

### Usage

Below we show how you can use `llm_generate` to use an llm to generate synthetic data. In this example, we use the `llm_generate` function to generate the capitals of countries but `llm_generate` can be used to generate any type of data such as synthetic questions, irrelevant responses, and so on.

````python

```python
import pandas as pd
from phoenix.experimental.evals import OpenAIModel, llm_generate

countries_df = pd.DataFrame(
    {
        "country": [
            "France",
            "Germany",
            "Italy",
        ]
    }
)

capitals_df = llm_generate(
    dataframe=countries_df,
    template="The capital of {country} is ",
    model=OpenAIModel(model_name="gpt-4"),
    verbose=True,
)

````

`llm_generate` also supports an output parser so you can use this to generate data in a structured format. For example, if you want to generate data in JSON format, you ca prompt for a JSON object and then parse the output using the `json` library.

```python
import json
from typing import Dict

import pandas as pd
from phoenix.experimental.evals import OpenAIModel, PromptTemplate, llm_generate


def output_parser(response: str) -> Dict[str, str]:
        try:
            return json.loads(response)
        except json.JSONDecodeError as e:
            return {"__error__": str(e)}

countries_df = pd.DataFrame(
    {
        "country": [
            "France",
            "Germany",
            "Italy",
        ]
    }
)

template = PromptTemplate("""
Given the country {country}, output the capital city and a description of that city.
The output must be in JSON format with the following keys: "capital" and "description".

response:
""")

capitals_df = llm_generate(
    dataframe=countries_df,
    template=template,
    model=OpenAIModel(
        model_name="gpt-4-1106-preview",
        model_kwargs={
            "response_format": {"type": "json_object"}
        }
        ),
    output_parser=output_parser
)
```

Commit message:

feat: Evals with explanations (#1699)
* Add explanation template

* Spike out explanations

* Ruff 🐶

* Use tailored explanation prompt

* Add explanation templates for all evals

* Wire up prompt template objects

* Update models to use new template object

* Ruff 🐶

* Resolve type and linter issues

* Fix more typing issues

* Address first round of feedback

* Extract `ClassificationTemplate` ABC

* Label extraction belongs to the "template" object

* Add logging for unparseable labels

* Patch in openai key environment variable for tests

* Refactor to address feedback

* Evaluators should use PromptTemplates

* Pair with Mikyo

* Fix for CI

* `PROMPT_TEMPLATE_STR` -> `PROMPT_TEMPLATE`

* Print prompt if verbose

* Add __repr__ to `PromptTemplate`

* fix relevance notebook

* docs: update evals

* Normalize prompt templates in llm_classify

* Ruff 🐶

* feat(evals): add an output_parser to llm_generate (#1736)

* feat(evals): add an output_parser param for structured data extraction

* remove brittle test

* docs(evals): document llm_generate with output parser (#1741)

---------

Co-authored-by: Mikyo King <mikyo@arize.com>

docs/api/evals.md, after:

---
description: >-
    Evals are LLM-powered functions that you can use to evaluate the output of
    your LLM or generative application
---

# Evals

{% hint style="warning" %}
Evals are still under `experimental` and must be installed via `pip install arize-phoenix[experimental]`
{% endhint %}

## phoenix.experimental.evals.PromptTemplate

```python
class PromptTemplate(
    text: str
    delimiters: List[str]
)
```

Class used to store and format prompt templates.

### Parameters

-   **text** (str): The raw prompt text used as a template.
-   **delimiters** (List\[str]): List of characters used to locate the variables within the prompt template `text`. Defaults to `["{", "}"]`.

### Attributes

-   **text** (str): The raw prompt text used as a template.
-   **variables** (List\[str]): The names of the variables that, once their values are substituted into the template, create the prompt text. These variable names are automatically detected from the template `text` using the `delimiters` passed when initializing the class (see Usage section below).

### Usage

Define a `PromptTemplate` by passing a `text` string and the `delimiters` to use to locate the `variables`. The default delimiters are `{` and `}`.

```python
from phoenix.experimental.evals import PromptTemplate

template_text = "My name is {name}. I am {age} years old and I am from {location}."
prompt_template = PromptTemplate(text=template_text)
```

If the prompt template variables have been correctly located, you can access them as follows:

```python
print(prompt_template.variables)
# Output: ['name', 'age', 'location']
```

The `PromptTemplate` class can also understand any combination of delimiters. Following the example above, but getting creative with our delimiters:

```python
template_text = "My name is :/name-!). I am :/age-!) years old and I am from :/location-!)."
prompt_template = PromptTemplate(text=template_text, delimiters=[":/", "-!)"])
print(prompt_template.variables)
# Output: ['name', 'age', 'location']
```

Once you have a `PromptTemplate` class instantiated, you can make use of its `format` method to construct the prompt text resulting from substituting values into the `variables`. To do so, a dictionary mapping the variable names to the values is passed:

```python
value_dict = {
    "name": "Peter",
    "age": 20,
    "location": "Queens"
}
print(prompt_template.format(value_dict))
# Output: My name is Peter. I am 20 years old and I am from Queens
```

Note that once you initialize the `PromptTemplate` class, you don't need to worry about delimiters anymore, it will be handled for you.

## phoenix.experimental.evals.llm_classify

```python
def llm_classify(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    model: BaseEvalModel,
    template: Union[ClassificationTemplate, PromptTemplate, str],
    rails: List[str],
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    verbose: bool = False,
    use_function_calling_if_available: bool = True,
    provide_explanation: bool = False,
) -> pd.DataFrame
```

Classifies each input row of the `dataframe` using an LLM. Returns a `pandas.DataFrame` where the first column is named `label` and contains the classification labels. An optional column named `explanation` is added when `provide_explanation=True`.

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A pandas dataframe in which each row represents a record to be classified. All template variable names must appear as column names in the dataframe (extra columns unrelated to the template are permitted).
-   **template (ClassificationTemplate, or str):** The prompt template as either an instance of PromptTemplate or a string. If the latter, the variable names should be surrounded by curly braces so that a call to `.format` can be made to substitute variable values.
-   **model (BaseEvalModel):** An LLM model class instance
-   **rails (List\[str]):** A list of strings representing the possible output classes of the model's predictions.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str]):** An optional system message for modals that support it
-   **verbose (bool, optional):** If `True`, prints detailed info to stdout such as model invocation parameters and details about retries and snapping to rails. Default `False`.
-   **use_function_calling_if_available (bool, default=True):** If `True`, use function calling (if available) as a means to constrain the LLM outputs. With function calling, the LLM is instructed to provide its response as a structured JSON object, which is easier to parse.
-   **provide_explanation (bool, default=False):** If `True`, provides an explanation for each classification label. A column named `explanation` is added to the output dataframe. Note that this will default to using function calling if available. If the model supplied does not support function calling, `llm_classify` will need a prompt template that prompts for an explanation. For phoenix's pre-tested eval templates, the template is swapped out for a [chain-of-thought](https://www.promptingguide.ai/techniques/cot) based template that prompts for an explanation.

### Returns

-   **pandas.DataFrame:** A dataframe where the `label` column (at column position 0) contains the classification labels. If `provide_explanation=True`, then an additional column named `explanation` is added to contain the explanation for each label. The dataframe has the same length and index as the input dataframe. The classification label values are from the entries in the rails argument or "NOT_PARSABLE" if the model's output could not be parsed.

## phoenix.experimental.run_relevance_eval

```python
def run_relevance_eval(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    model: BaseEvalModel,
    template: Union[ClassificationPromptTemplate, PromptTemplate, str] = RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_TEMPLATE,
    rails: List[str] = list(RAG_RELEVANCY_PROMPT_RAILS_MAP.values()),
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    query_column_name: str = "query",
    document_column_name: str = "reference",
) -> List[List[str]]:
```

Given a pandas dataframe containing queries and retrieved documents, classifies the relevance of each retrieved document to the corresponding query using an LLM.

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pd.DataFrame):** A pandas dataframe containing queries and retrieved documents. If both query_column_name and reference_column_name are present in the input dataframe, those columns are used as inputs and should appear in the following format:
    -   The entries of the query column must be strings.
    -   The entries of the documents column must be lists of strings. Each list may contain an arbitrary number of document texts retrieved for the corresponding query.
    -   If the input dataframe is lacking either query_column_name or reference_column_name but has query and retrieved document columns in OpenInference trace format named "attributes.input.value" and "attributes.retrieval.documents", respectively, then those columns are used as inputs and should appear in the following format:
        -   The entries of the query column must be strings.
        -   The entries of the document column must be lists of OpenInference document objects, each object being a dictionary that stores the document text under the key "document.content".
-   **model (BaseEvalModel):** The model used for evaluation.
-   # **template (Union\[ClassificationPromptTemplate, PromptTemplate, str], optional):** The template used for evaluation.
-   **template (Union\[PromptTemplate, str], optional):** The template used for evaluation.
-   **rails (List\[str], optional):** A list of strings representing the possible output classes of the model's predictions.
-   **query_column_name (str, optional):** The name of the query column in the dataframe, which should also be a template variable.
-   **reference_column_name (str, optional):** The name of the document column in the dataframe, which should also be a template variable.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str], optional):** An optional system message.

### Returns

-   **evaluations (List\[List\[str]]):** A list of relevant and not relevant classifications. The "shape" of the list should mirror the "shape" of the retrieved documents column, in the sense that it has the same length as the input dataframe and each sub-list has the same length as the corresponding list in the retrieved documents column. The values in the sub-lists are either entries from the rails argument or "NOT_PARSABLE" in the case where the LLM output could not be parsed.

## phoenix.experimental.evals.llm_generate

```python
def llm_generate(
    dataframe: pd.DataFrame,
    template: Union[PromptTemplate, str],
    model: Optional[BaseEvalModel] = None,
    system_instruction: Optional[str] = None,
    output_parser: Optional[Callable[[str], Dict[str, Any]]] = None,
) -> List[str]
```

Generates a text using a template using an LLM. This function is useful if you want to generate synthetic data, such as irrelevant responses

### Parameters

-   **dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A pandas dataframe in which each row represents a record to be used as in input to the template. All template variable names must appear as column names in the dataframe (extra columns unrelated to the template are permitted).
-   **template (Union\[PromptTemplate, str])**: The prompt template as either an instance of PromptTemplate or a string. If the latter, the variable names should be surrounded by curly braces so that a call to `format` can be made to substitute variable values.
-   **model (BaseEvalModel)**: An LLM model class.
-   **system_instruction (Optional\[str], optional):** An optional system message.
-   **output_parser (Callable[[str], Dict[str, Any]], optional)** An optional function that takes each generated response and parses it to a dictionary. The keys of the dictionary should correspond to the column names of the output dataframe. If None, the output dataframe will have a single column named "output".

### Returns

-   **generations_dataframe (pandas.DataFrame)**: A dataframe where each row represents the generated output

### Usage

Below we show how you can use `llm_generate` to use an llm to generate synthetic data. In this example, we use the `llm_generate` function to generate the capitals of countries but `llm_generate` can be used to generate any type of data such as synthetic questions, irrelevant responses, and so on.

````python

```python
import pandas as pd
from phoenix.experimental.evals import OpenAIModel, llm_generate

countries_df = pd.DataFrame(
    {
        "country": [
            "France",
            "Germany",
            "Italy",
        ]
    }
)

capitals_df = llm_generate(
    dataframe=countries_df,
    template="The capital of {country} is ",
    model=OpenAIModel(model_name="gpt-4"),
    verbose=True,
)

````

`llm_generate` also supports an output parser so you can use this to generate data in a structured format. For example, if you want to generate data in JSON format, you ca prompt for a JSON object and then parse the output using the `json` library.

```python
import json
from typing import Dict

import pandas as pd
from phoenix.experimental.evals import OpenAIModel, PromptTemplate, llm_generate


def output_parser(response: str) -> Dict[str, str]:
        try:
            return json.loads(response)
        except json.JSONDecodeError as e:
            return {"__error__": str(e)}

countries_df = pd.DataFrame(
    {
        "country": [
            "France",
            "Germany",
            "Italy",
        ]
    }
)

template = PromptTemplate("""
Given the country {country}, output the capital city and a description of that city.
The output must be in JSON format with the following keys: "capital" and "description".

response:
""")

capitals_df = llm_generate(
    dataframe=countries_df,
    template=template,
    model=OpenAIModel(
        model_name="gpt-4-1106-preview",
        model_kwargs={
            "response_format": {"type": "json_object"}
        }
        ),
    output_parser=output_parser
)
```
