---
description: >-
  Evaluate, troubleshoot, and fine-tune your LLM, CV, and NLP models in a
  notebook.
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1610296669228-602fa827fc1f?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw1fHxzcGFjZXxlbnwwfHx8fDE2NzkwOTMzODc&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Phoenix: AI Observability & Evaluation

Phoenix is an open-source observability library designed for experimentation, evaluation, and troubleshooting.

The toolset is designed to ingest [inference data](quickstart/inferences.md) for [LLMs](concepts/llm-observability.md), CV, NLP, and tabular datasets as well as [LLM traces](quickstart/llm-traces.md). It allows AI Engineers and Data Scientists to quickly visualize their data, evaluate performance, track down issues & insights, and easily export to improve.&#x20;

## Quickstarts

Running Phoenix for the first time? Select a quickstart below.&#x20;

<table data-card-size="large" data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th align="center"></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th><th data-hidden data-card-cover data-type="files"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="center"><strong>LLM Traces</strong></td><td><a href="quickstart/llm-traces.md">llm-traces.md</a></td><td><a href=".gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-09-27 at 1.51.45 PM.png">Screenshot 2023-09-27 at 1.51.45 PM.png</a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Inferences</strong></td><td><a href="quickstart/inferences.md">inferences.md</a></td><td><a href=".gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-09-27 at 1.53.06 PM.png">Screenshot 2023-09-27 at 1.53.06 PM.png</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

Don't know which one to choose? Phoenix has two main data ingestion methods:

1. [LLM Traces:](quickstart/llm-traces.md) Phoenix is used on top of trace data generated by LlamaIndex and LangChain. The general use case is to troubleshoot LLM applications with agentic workflows.&#x20;
2. [Inferences](quickstart/inferences.md): Phoenix is used to troubleshoot models whose datasets can be expressed as DataFrames in Python such as LLM applications built in Python workflows, CV, NLP, and tabular models.

### **Phoenix Functionality**&#x20;

* [**Evaluate Performance of LLM Tasks with Evals Library:**](concepts/llm-evals.md) Use the Phoenix Evals library to easily evaluate tasks such as hallucination, summarization, and retrieval relevance, or create your own custom template.
* [**Troubleshoot Agentic Workflows:**](concepts/llm-traces.md) Get visibility into where your complex or agentic workflow broke, or find performance bottlenecks, across different span types with LLM Tracing.
* [**Optimize Retrieval Systems:**](use-cases/troubleshooting-llm-retrieval-with-vector-stores.md) Identify missing context in your knowledge base, and when irrelevant context is retrieved by visualizing query embeddings alongside knowledge base embeddings with RAG Analysis.
* [**Compare Model Versions:**](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix/concepts/phoenix-basics/phoenix-basics#how-many-datasets-do-i-need) Compare and evaluate performance across model versions prior to deploying to production.
* [**Exploratory Data Analysis:**](integrations/bring-production-data-to-notebook-for-eda-or-retraining.md) Connect teams and workflows, with continued analysis of production data from Arize in a notebook environment for fine tuning workflows.
* [**Find Clusters of Issues to Export for Model Improvement:**](how-to/export-your-data.md) Find clusters of problems using performance metrics or drift. Export clusters for retraining workflows.
* [**Surface Model Drift and Multivariate Drift:**](https://docs.arize.com/phoenix/concepts/phoenix-basics/phoenix-basics#embedding-drift-over-time) Use the Embeddings Analyzer to surface data drift for computer vision, NLP, and tabular models.&#x20;

## Resources

### [Tutorials](notebooks.md)

Check out a comprehensive list of example notebooks for LLM Traces, Evals, RAG Analysis, and more. &#x20;

### [Use Cases](broken-reference)

Learn about best practices, and how to get started with use case examples such as Q\&A with Retrieval, Summarization, and Chatbots.&#x20;

### [Community](https://join.slack.com/t/arize-ai/shared\_invite/zt-1ppbtg5dd-1CYmQO4dWF4zvXFiONTjMg)

Join the Phoenix Slack community to ask questions, share findings, provide feedback, and connect with other developers.&#x20;

